https://www.interviewbit.com/react-interview-questions/
You can refer this resource . But answer everything in your own words. Dont copy paste!!
Also when i ask for example please dont copy the example in the resources? Make your own examples.
If you are found copying the examples or the answers you will have to repeat everything again

2 advices

Dont read any docs related to questions on react class based components. It would be a waste of time and trust me no one asks questions on it nowadays .
Understand the deeper concepts of everything you read. Definition will never do as the interviewer would always ask you deeper concepts.




1. What is React? What are the advantages of using React , compared to normal Javascript?

2. What is difference between library and framework? Is React a library or a framework? Explain the reason?

3. What is useState() in React? What does usestate return? What does it take as argument? Give code example of usestate?

4. What are state variables in react ? How are they different from normal variables? How do we decide when to use states and when to use normal variables?

5. What are keys in React? When should we use it? what is the advantage of keys?

6.What is JSX? How does JSX work?

7. What is DOM? What is the virtual DOM? How does react use the virtual DOM to render the UI?

8.What are the differences between controlled and uncontrolled components? Design of controlled and unontrolled component and paste the code here?



https://www.interviewbit.com/react-interview-questions/
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fqNPSSoMO9Y
You can refer this resource . But answer everything in your own words. Dont copy paste!!

1.What are props in React? What is the difference between React state and props.
2. What is prop drilling in React? What are the better ways to prevent prop drilling which you know?
3.What are error boundaries? How is the error boundary different from other components?
4.What are React Hooks?How are hooks different from normal functions?
5. What are the 2 rules that must be followed while using React Hooks? What is the reason behind such rules?
6. When does a functional component rerender?(Explain lifecycle of functional components?) Watch this video---> Favourite interview Question
7. When does the return statement of a functional component get called?
8. What is the use of useEffect React Hooks? When does the useEffect hook get called in the lifecycle of react functional components?
9.What are the 2 arguments of useEffect hook? Explain each one of them with code example.




https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tsCoBd7xSK8
1.What are the different ways to style a React component?
2.Name a few techniques to optimize React app performance? Explain with code examples.
3. What is the way for Parent to Child Communication? Give code example.
4. What are the ways to communicate from child to parent? Give code example.
5. What are the way to communicate between sibling components?
6. What are Higher Order Components in React?Watch this video and explain with code example. (Favourite Interview Question)
7. What are the different phases of the component lifecycle? With a small code example explain the different stages when they happen
8. What are custom hooks in react? Can you design one?




https://github.com/sudheerj/reactjs-interview-questions#what-are-fragments
1.What is reconciliation in React? Write in your own words.
2.What are fragments? How are they better than other div elements? Check this out for reference.
3. What element get introduced into the DOM when we use fragments? How does it work?
4. What are the advantages of React compared to Vanilla JS?
5. Why React uses className over class attribute?
6.What is children prop? When should we use it ? Give an example to explain it


1.What is React Router?When should we use it?Give code example and explain it in detail.
2. How to pass data between sibling components using React router?
3. What is useCallback? When should we use it?
4. What does useMemo do? Give code example to explain when will you use it.
5. Difference between React.memo and useMemo.?
6. What is the use of context API ? When should we use it? How does Context Api work?
7. What is the use of babel ?




1.What is the virtual DOM? How does react use the virtual DOM to render the UI?
2. What are the differences between controlled and uncontrolled components?
3. Explain about types of side effects in React component.
4. Can useeffect return anything? When is the return function of useffect called ?
5.What are the different ways to style a React component which you know?


https://www.interviewbit.com/redux-interview-questions/
1. What is Redux?
2.Why do we even need redux? How is it better than context API?
3.. What is Flux?
4.State the core principles of Redux. 
5. What are pure function?
6.Is it true that Redux can only be used with React?
7. How do you decided which state to make a reducer and which statue you want to make local state?


1.What do you understand by ACTIONs in Redux's architecture? Explain with example.
2. What are reducers in Redux's architecture? Show with an example.
3. Explain the typical data flow in an application made using React and Redux (Redux Lifecycle for an application).
4.Name all the Redux Store methods. Explain each one of them in details with examples as to when to use them?
5.Explain with an example how to set the initial state in Redux?
6.What does the connect keyword do in react redux?
7.How can we access a redux store outside a react component?
8.What are the things which we should never do inside a reducer?.
9.What are middlewares in reducers? What are they used for?